one of the reasons that people wear
masks is they think that it's going to
protect them from virus but the virus
isn't floating around in the air so it's
not protecting me against anything
because it's not there it's probably
going to be on my hand because of
shaking hands with someone who's got the
virus and I have transmitted it I have
carried the virus to my face
[Music]
if you're an environment where everybody
else is wearing a face masks and you're
not then it may make you feel vulnerable
because you feel that you don't have the
protection everyone else does but
logically if you're not close to people
they're not coughing and sneezing on you
then their face mask isn't necessary the
virus enters the body through mucous
membranes we mean the eyes the nose the
mouth and it's transmitted from person
to person generally by us touching our
eyes nose or mouth or if we're inhaling
droplets directly from someone who is
sneezing or coughing
[Music]
the best way for the general public to
protect itself against coronavirus and
an other respiratory viruses is really
careful hand hygiene so that's really
washing your hands with either soap and
water or alcohol gel if certain water is
not available especially when you think
that you've been exposed so if you've
been out in public places and touching
the surfaces that other people might
have touched that really is the best way
and bringing attention to am i touching
my face one of the problems if lots of
people who don't need face masks are
using face muscles stop pile on them it
means that there aren't enough face
masks available where they're really
needed for people like health care
workers who are on the frontline and
dealing with suspect or confirmed
coronavirus cases the vast majority of
people are not susceptible to getting a
severe infection but most people will be
a mild illness but like having a cold or
a cough or the flu
it's the older people with comorbidities
who at risk so you don't need to go and
panic by facemasks
you